---
date: 2019-06-18 11:48
description: With learning Swift and iOS development, it can be a challenge to find
  the right Mac for developers. Here are some guidelines depending on experience and
  budget.
---
For beginners learning Swift, it can be a challenge to find the right
Mac for developers. As with many things, I strongly believe you
shouldn\'t spend too much money until you know you will be making a real
commitment to a project. Rightfully, this includes Swift and iOS
development.

Therefore, depending on your experience and your budget, here are some
guidelines:

## Just starting off - under \$600 - **iPad**

You can accomplish a lot with Swift Playground. Rightfully, it's a great
way to start learning Swift specifically. You want be able to deploy
onto an iPhone or post to the App Store but it\'s great way to lightly
dabble without commiting.

## Under \$1300 - **MacBook Air, MacBook, Mac Mini**

If you want to deploy and test on an actual device or you wish to post
to the App Store, **you need macOS and Xcode**. If you don't mind losing
portability a Mac mini is worth it. Otherwise, what you sacrifice in
portability you loose in speed that is building in Xcode will take
longer. However now you can actually build, deploy, post an actual app
to the App Store.

## **Under \$2200** - **MacBook Pro**... **However**

***With the ***[***recent spate of keyboard
issues ***](https://www.wsj.com/graphics/apple-still-hasnt-fixed-its-macbook-keyboard-problem/)***as
well as ***[***the rumored transition to
ARM***](https://www.macrumors.com/2019/02/21/apple-custom-arm-based-chips-2020/)***, I'd
highly recommend waiting on purchasing a brand new MacBook Pro***.

## **Above \$2200**

Surprisingly, you can **upgrade your MacBook Pro** all the way to \$6600
if you really want to but I wouldn't recommend it. However, I\'ve
purchased an **iMac** which is what I use and love. Consequently, **I
would never recommend a developer get a iMac Pro (unless you plan to do
game development or multimedia productions) and certainly not a Mac
Pro.**

## Mac for Developers - Other Things to Note

Additionally, buying used is certainly worthwhile. However, make sure
that it is recent enough to support the latest as well as upcoming
version of macOS.

Finding the right Mac for developers is important, so hopefully you find
this helpful in your journey towards becoming an accomplished Swift and
iOS developer.