---
title: Native App Development and Its Advantages
date: 2019-10-18 05:59
description: For a more optimal user experience and easier maintenance, there are
  important reasons to consider native app development.
tags: Coding, Native iOS development, Programming, Software
featuredImage: /media/wp-images/brightdigit/2019/10/featured_image.png
---
While cross-platform mobile development has become a trend when it comes
to making apps, people still ask us regularly when it is worth getting
an app developed natively. The fact is, you can get adequate results
with cross-platform development tools in many instances. **However, for
a more optimal user experience and easier maintenance, there are
important reasons to consider native app development.**

<figure>
<img src="https://brightdigit.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/featured_image-1024x512.png" class="wp-image-1753" width="1024" height="512" />
</figure>

In this post, we’ll cover the major reasons about when and why it’s
important to develop an app natively. Additionally, we'll talk about why
you should have a specialist to help build or port the app to a new
platform. Moreover we'll discuss:

-   [The Different Methods of Developing An App](#methods)
-   [When Cross-Platform Might Be The Right Toolset](#cross-platform)
-   [User Experience and Native App Development](#user-experience)
-   [Performance and Native App Development](#performance)
-   [Maintainability and Native App Development](#maintainability)

## A Couple of Points on Terms...

While you’re probably used to seeing many of these terms thrown around a
lot, let's define them more clearly.

### **Native code (i.e. Swift or Objective-C)**

**In software development, when we refer to native we are talking about
using the programming language and toolset that's been designed for the
device hardware.** As an example, iPhone apps are meant to built using
Xcode and coded in either Swift or Objective-C as designated by Apple.

### **Cross-Platform**

Cross-platform development is an alternative method for building apps.
Typically, the development team will bring their existing knowledge
thereby reducing the friction of developing features for multiple
platforms (i.e. Android and iOS). For example, let's say you need
develop a shopping cart feature. Rather than writing in Swift for iPhone
and then Kotlin or Java for Android, you can use one toolset for the
same feature for both platforms. Typically, this is done by writing the
code in a single language. The toolset then transforms the code into the
native language of the platform. If needed, the toolset will provide
additional frameworks so it can run on each supported platform (i.e.
Android or iOS).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This post is primarily about why you should write your app’s code
natively. Likewise, If you are going to go build for multiple platforms,
we'll discuss why investing in having the multiple code bases is
important. As well as why it delivers the best experience possible.

## Who this article isn’t for

There are many advantages to building an app in the native code of a
platform, but before we get to them, we need to be clear we are assuming
you are investing the time and effort to produce a high-quality app for
your customers or clients with at least technically complex features
that you plan to maintain for a long time.

If what you’re looking for is more of a budget-limited app that’s just
for recording a grocery list or a minimum viable product for multiple
platforms, then you’re unlikely to find this article helpful —the time,
effort, and cost to code a native app isn’t going to be anywhere close
to the value you’re going to get out of it.

## What Makes Native App Development So Great?

There are a number of advantages to building an app in the native code
of a platform, that can be broken down into three areas: **User
Experience, Performance, and Maintainability.**

NOTE: *At Bright Digit, we specialize in software development for
Apple/iOS, so throughout this article, we’ll often provide examples
using iOS as an example. However, with perhaps a couple of exceptions,
the principles we cover here apply equally in the context of Android or
any other device platform.*

<figure>
<img src="https://brightdigit.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/003-experience-300x300.png" class="wp-image-1757" />
</figure>

### Native User Experience

If you’re part of a brand or company investing in creating a great app
for your customers to use, than you want the best user experience
possible. What this means can vary a little depending on whom you’re
talking to, but can be usually be boiled down to two key elements:

1.  **It is easy for the customer to use** – the customer can get the
    desired result they want from using the app in a way that is
    intuitive and doesn’t require much, if any, complex actions.
2.  **It is pleasing to use** – it is aesthetically attractive,
    consistent with the app’s brand, and makes some effort to affirm the
    user’s choices and actions on the app.

When you code your app natively, it should come as no surprise that it
is relatively easy to deliver a great user experience: you are working
in a format that your device directly understands, so you can make full
use of the platform’s features and strengths. You don’t need to go
through any additional steps to create a user interface that looks
natural and meshes perfectly with the device it is being used on.

#### Guidelines, Conventions, and Expectations

It also plays into user expectations: using iOS as an example, since
most iPhone users know what a great app experience is like on their
phone, you can meet that expectation, using the tools provided by Apple
to build features using designs that are familiar and comfortable for
them to use.

This is an important consideration, especially for those that might be
thinking, that by developing a cross-platform app, they want a
pixel-perfect identical experience on all devices – this can be a bad
idea. **iOS and Android users have different expectations about what a
great user experience is for their device**. Each platform (including
macOS, Windows, etc..) has established expectations and UI guidelines
about how certain features work and how certain design elements appear.
Google has put out [their design guide known commonly as Material
Design](https://material.io) and Apple [has human interface guidelines
for their
platforms](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/)
as well.

If you use a cross-platform tool to design an identical user interface
on both platforms, the result is likely to be the application won’t look
quite right on one or all devices. If you try to duplicate a feature
from one platform onto one that doesn’t have that functionality, this
could present bugs or unexpected behavior in the app, which leads to the
next area...

<figure>
<img src="https://brightdigit.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/004-speedometer-300x300.png" class="wp-image-1755" />
</figure>

### Performance

An issue with cross-platform apps that are written in a non-native
language is they require interpreters or some other kind of assistance
in translating the code they are written into one the device
understands.

Much like the real-life analogy of two people speaking with the aid of a
human translator, this slows down communication. When one person says
something, the interpreter takes a moment to think about what has been
said, and then communicates that message in the native language of the
other. Additionally, there may be limitations to what can be said if one
language has a word for something that the other language does not (as a
human language example, Finnish famously has no word for the English
‘please’ as in ‘please and thank you’). Computers and smartphones have
these same limits to their languages, a result of the needs and
limitations of their human creators.

**When you code an app natively, these kinds of complications and
limitations on performance are essentially a non-issue.** It should also
mean you will have cleaner code for your app that is easier to read and
more consistent, both of which are important when considering... 

<figure>
<img src="https://brightdigit.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/005-settings-300x300.png" class="wp-image-1756" />
</figure>

### Native App Maintainability

If you’re building an app that you plan to maintain for your customers
for years, you ideally want make it relatively easy and cheap to
maintain the code. When your app is written in native code, maintenance
is simply easier to do, because it usually requires less code and fewer
or no dependencies (in software, a dependency is when one piece of
software relies on another piece of software to work), resulting in more
*lightweight* app software.

**A natively developed app has the advantage of being written in one
language that, provided it’s up-to-date, has access to any new features
you want to add, as well as a consistent way to find and fix bugs.**
This is especially important if your app has a lot of complex functions,
requires a lot of the platform’s resources, or needs to use a specific
Application Programming Interface (API). It also makes it far less
likely to have bugs or issues related to the device’s operating system,
again because it is written in the same language.

As well, because, using Swift and the APIs provided by Apple (the
manufacturer of the device you are developing for) means you are only
dependent on that one source over the long term, as opposed to requiring
many third-party sources to maintain ever-changing software and
hardware, as well as the translator needed so everything can work
together.

Ultimately, choosing to develop an app natively not only means it will
be faster to get your app into the market sooner because it will
generally take less time and have fewer problems, it will also likely
make updates to your app simple and straightforward.

## Is a native app what your business needs?

Ultimately, while there are reasons where a cross-platform app solution
might be adequate for what you need, if you’re committed to deliver a
high-quality user experience that can take advantage of a platform’s
most powerful functions and is easy to maintain for years to come, a
native app is probably your best choice. **In the long term, they will
deliver better value and be much less of a hassle to own and use.**

At BrightDigit, we specialize in building native apps for iOS, usually
written in Swift. We work with you to make you end up with an app that
delights your customer,  while being straightforward to build and
maintain. If that sounds like the experience you want to have in
developing a successful app, [**contact us on our contact
page**](https://brightdigit.com/contact/) to let us know.