---
title: How to Set a Realistic Project Budget for Your iOS App
date: 2019-08-19 02:28
description: Our guide to setting a project budget for building a mobile app for iOS,
  including time and costs of different parts of app development  | Bright Digit LLC
featuredImage: /media/wp-images/brightdigit/2019/08/przemyslaw-marczynski-oCfkSnqZ0SI-unsplash-e1565882465407-1024x512.jpg
---
If you are contemplating building an app for the first time, or maybe
you’re looking to get an existing one ported to iOS or another mobile
platform, it may be difficult to figure out how much it will cost and
what a realistic project budget for it looks like. A quick look in the
App Store might convince you that everyone has one and they are easy to
make. However, creating a good-quality app is usually a lot of work.

<figure>
<img src="/media/wp-images/brightdigit/2019/08/przemyslaw-marczynski-oCfkSnqZ0SI-unsplash-e1565882465407-1024x512.jpg" class="wp-image-1702" />
</figure>

That said, with a little knowledge about how an app is created, creating
a budget doesn’t need to be daunting. I’ve got some tips to help you
with what to consider in developing an app for your business.

I’ll be covering how to figure out both the time and cost of coding,
designing and delivering an app to your customers and what kinds of
things you should be talking to your developer about before work gets
started. 

## What does your app need to do?

If you approach any good developer with a proposal to have an app built,
the first thing they are going to ask is “What do you need the app to
do?” An app, at its most basic level, is a set of functions that allow
specific actions to be taken: for example, if you run a consultancy, you
may want an app with a function that allows customers to book meetings
with you. If you have a restaurant that delivers, you probably want a
function that allows your customers to search your menu; another for
them add items to their bill; another for them to pay.

All these elements are considered by a developer when they are putting
together a quote for you, which will include how many functions and
screens the app will need and how they will behave in different
situations. As well, if you need the app to integrate with third-party
services, such as Facebook or a credit payment system, or if the app
relies on any special controls or sensors, these will also contribute to
a higher quote.

## Has somebody already done it?

I’m always surprised how many times people come with a great idea for an
app, but haven’t checked the App Store to see if something like it
already exists. Not only is this is easy to do, but it’s also a simple
way to find out how well, or how difficult, an app idea could be to
build and deliver. It can also reveal issues you may not have initially
thought of, like how the app handles edge cases or exceptions. This
comes up more often than you might imagine, turning something that might
have seemed simple into a need for something complex.

As an example, we here at BrightDigit built a nurse training app that
covered certification requirements for different States. This, while it
might seem simple, turned out to be complex to create, because many
users needed ways of tracking their certification training credits in
two or more States and credits for each requirement needed to be tracked
separately. It certainly wasn’t something the client thought was going
to be needed, and while many of the app’s users didn’t need it, it ended
up being a necessary feature.

## How well do you need it done?

Another factor to consider is the level of quality you need for your
app. Assuming you’ve hired a reputable developer, the more time and
money you can provide them, the higher quality the app will be: things
like a more attractive and easy-to-use user interface, fewer bugs and a
way to handle them, or whether you can use the app offline.

Additionally, you need to consider what devices your app can run on. Do
you only need it to run on the latest iPhone operating system? What
about iPads? Android devices? Desktop computers? Generally speaking, it
is worth spending time finding out what kinds of devices your customers
use so you only spend resources coding for platforms that are
necessary. 

### How an iOS App can be coded?

Levels of build quality are one of the biggest differentiators between
developers. It is possible to get significantly different quotes for the
same app depending on how well it’s made. While there are many factors
that might have bearing on this, the main one is how the app is coded:

#### Native

Generally speaking, if you want a better-quality app, you will want it
coded in the native programming language of the device you want it to
run on. Creating a native app allows the greatest level of control and
customization, and are often the best-looking, as they can use all the
tools and features of the operating system.

#### Templates

Some developers might save time and money on app development by using
app templates. Effectively, these use premade designs that allow you to
add and arrange common app functions. These often have little room for
customization or being able to change things later, making them a poor
choice if you’re looking for a good long-term investment in an app. 

#### Cross-Platform Tools

Another option that some developers go with is using an application
framework, which allows developers to build apps in a script or language
other than the one natively used by an operating system. This also has
some limits on what you can build into the app.

#### Web Page Wrappers

Another way is to use a web development wrappers. With this method, you
create a web page and have it display as if it were an app. There are
some considerable limitations to what you can do with this method
though, and shouldn’t be used for anything but the simplest of needs.

## How will your app be delivered to your customers?

A smaller consideration than the ones above, but can be surprising for
those new to app development, is it can take significant time to get an
app into the App Store or Google Play. All sorts of issues might need to
be addressed before your app meets the requirements Apple or Google have
for putting it in their stores. As well, you should have all your
marketing and design assets ready, which are needed to get into the
stores. By planning ahead and knowing the requirements of the store
before work gets started, you can save yourself significant time and
money later on.

<figure>
<img src="/media/wp-images/brightdigit/2019/08/kaleidico-26MJGnCM0Wc-unsplash-e1565882532230-1024x512.jpg" class="wp-image-1703" />
</figure>

## Things to Keep in Mind

There are many factors to consider when building an app and creating a
realistic project budget:

-   Functionality
-   Has it already been built?
-   Build quality
-   Form of delivery

...and that’s only scratching the surface. There are also factors like
testing to consider, which we’ll cover in a different post. However, the
above is a good starting point for putting together a realistic project
budget and having an effective discussion with a prospective developer.

## Do you want a well-designed app that delights your customers?

When we work with clients to help them build apps, we want to make sure
they can stay within their budget and don’t end up with unnecessary
features. Often with new clients, we suggest building a proof of concept
of their app idea, so they can quickly put it in front of their
customers and discover what features they actually need. Then, when
they’re ready, we help them build the full-fledged app.

If that sounds like the experience you want to have in developing a
successful app, **[contact us here](https://brightdigit.com/contact/)**
and tell us about your ideas!
