---
date: 2018-09-04 05:25
description: Tim Haines of Symposia Labs in Holland is presenting for our Lansing
  Marketing Hackers October 10th event at WLNS on Facebook and Instagram Advertising.
---
::: {.wp-block-image}
![Tim Haines of Symposia
Labs](https://brightdigit.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/DSC_0579.jpg){.wp-image-1339}
:::

[Lansing Marketing
Hackers](https://www.meetup.com/Lansing-Marketing-Hackers/) was a great
success last year, both in attendance and speakers. We are looking
forward to another great year for 2018-2019. We have lined up [Jesse
Flores from Super Web Pros](https://www.superwebpros.com) [speaking in
December](https://www.meetup.com/Lansing-Marketing-Hackers/events/253376145/)
and on October 10th, **Tim Haines founder and project manager of
[Symposia Labs](https://symposialabs.com)** in Holland will be [speaking
at our first Lansing Marketing Hackers event for the 2018-2019
session](https://www.meetup.com/Lansing-Marketing-Hackers/events/253375863/).

Tim will be presenting at [WLNS at Noon
on](https://www.meetup.com/Lansing-Marketing-Hackers/events/253375863/)
[**Facebook and Instagram
Advertising**](https://www.meetup.com/Lansing-Marketing-Hackers/events/253375863/).
He also host **[Drinks and
Digital](https://www.facebook.com/groups/drinksanddigital/)** in
Lansing, Holland, Grand Rapids, Grand Haven, and Chicago.

We got a chance to ask Tim a few questions on how he got started and
what he thinks are important for people to understand about online
marketing and advertising.

## How did you get involved in marketing and advertising?

I fell in love with digital marketing both slowly and all at once with
lots of stops and starts. I did event marketing for three years with a
free-tax filing program sponsored by the United Way. After that, **I
went into marketing and started freelancing and found West Michigan to
be a place that encouraged a startup mindset.** One by one, I found
others to join my team and that's how Symposia was born.

## What have you seen change over your time in the marketing space?

Almost everything. **Social media advertising has become a key part of
most digital strategies. That's why advertisers continue to offer new
and innovated products that allow for more precise targeting than ever
before.** New channels (such as Snapchat) have entered the landscape.
Old platforms (remember MySpace?) have died.

\[bctt tweet=\"Social media advertising has become a key part of most
digital strategies. That's why advertisers continue to offer new and
innovated products that allow for more precise targeting than ever
before. \@TimothyTHaines\" username=\"\@brightdigit\"\]

## What common mistakes do you see people make?

Assuming that their working with an expert\...

1.  Putting a bunch of work into something **without an actual
    strategy**.
2.  **Forgetting to create personas** and consider the needs and pain
    points of their target audiences.
3.  **Putting quantity over quality.**

## Could you explain exactly how a Facebook pixel works?

The Facebook pixel tracks what you do on a specific website and it also
tracks what you do on all other website that use a Facebook pixel.
**Facebook pixel makes it possible to run extremely advanced campaigns;
it is really the technology that makes Facebook advertising so
successful.** Facebook is extremely good at figuring out what it is
users want to see.

## How do the changes in 2018 change FB advertising? (FB clamping down on advertisers procuring user data, etc.)

The changes in 2018 don't have a dramatic impact on advertisers.
Depending on the target audience, some advertisers have had to shift
their strategies. However, similar changes have happened before. For
example, Facebook removed the ability to target by profession last year.
**To keep winning with Facebook ads, it is important to handle data
responsibly, create high-quality ads, and to send users to high-quality
websites.**

## How are advertising on FaceBook and Instagram different? Similar?

As a channel, Instagram is more focused on lifestyle content and is also
used by a typically younger demographic (Instagram is highly popular
among young adults between the ages of 18 and 29). Ads that perform well
on Facebook will not necessarily perform well on Instagram. Having said
that, many of the ad units are similar and the targeting itself is the
same (the Facebook ads marketplace is used to run ads on both channels).

\[bctt tweet=\"To keep winning with Facebook ads, it is important to
handle data responsibly, create high-quality ads, and to send users to
high-quality websites. \@TimothyTHaines\" username=\"\@brightdigit\"\]

## How does one decide which best suits one's business?

You must have a digital marketing and content strategy that includes
detailed personas then you can worry about content distribution and
which channels to focus on. **The strategy should always guide
distribution and channels.**

\[bctt tweet=\"The strategy should always guide distribution and
channels. \@TimothyTHaines\" username=\"\@brightdigit\"\]

## If I have no interest in social media at all, is it worth doing half-heartedly? Or should I just not do it if I'm not convinced of the value?

It's wise to outsource or delegate to another team member if you're not
interested in it. **Quality is more important than quantity. Remember
that your potential lack of interest doesn't negate the potential return
on investment.** For example: I'm not interested much in PR. I just
never "fell in love" with it the way that I have fallen in love with
digital marketing. My lack of interest in PR doesn't negate the fact
that it constantly has a positive impact on my business when I do it
well.

**You can either become an expert or hire one.**

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Tim will be speaking at WLNS on October 10th at
Noon.](https://www.meetup.com/Lansing-Marketing-Hackers/events/253375863/)
Please RSVP at our [meetup
page.](https://www.meetup.com/Lansing-Marketing-Hackers/events/253375863/)
Check out the [Drinks and Digital Facebook
group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/drinksanddigital/), for more
details on events in your area.

If you are interested in the technical or advanced side of marketing and
want to become a power user in such apps and services then definitely
check out [Lansing Marketing
Hackers.](https://www.meetup.com/Lansing-Marketing-Hackers/) [Lansing
Marketing Hackers](https://www.meetup.com/Lansing-Marketing-Hackers/) is
a meetup we host with support from [UnoDeuce
Multimedia](https://unodeuce.com) and
[TekSystems](https://www.teksystems.com) on the second Wednesday of
every other month at Noon. You can watch our previous events on [our
YouTube
channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZs7U0Q-Y6vkbdzrIk0tT1A) or
join our group on
[FaceBook](http://facebook.com/LansingMarketingHackers) and
[Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/Lansing-Marketing-Hackers/).

We look forward to seeing you [at Tim\'s presentation on October
10th.](https://www.meetup.com/Lansing-Marketing-Hackers/events/253375863/)